This video we're going to take a look at
a date validation errors and this is a
issue that was reported by Renan. I hope
I'm pronouncing that name correctly. He
created this issue and then also
submitted a pull request for me to look
at. This is very similar to what we
saw George provided. I want to step
through a couple things here. So he's
using a standard date format from Brazil which is
a little bit different from the US so
international dates in different
formats can be hairy to deal with of the
varying date formats. So here, he's
inputting a date and it's getting
rejected by the framework. He's come
up with he provided this pull request
and let's take a look at what he changed
here. He's using the dateTimeFormat. I
think this was introduced in Spring in
like 3.1. If I remember correctly. So it's
been around for a while. It's a little
bit different. Let's toggle over to
IntelliJ and take a look  in the
implementation that George did.
He did
right towards the top you did the Init
Binder. So for the VisitController, any
LocalDate property that's going to be
taking in a String. It's going to get
parsed in the LocalDate. If I come in
here and click on that, it's going to try
to parse the date on valid date String
so it's going to allow different date
formats. I'm not quite sure exactly
how it does it. Let's see here.
Yeah so ISO_LOCAL_DATE.
So this is going to be year-month-day so
that's going to be a little nuts the
default format year-month-day. So
different formats might not work
here. So this here is going to be looking
for a specific format but this only
affects the VisitController. Now the
pull request that is going to go for the
pet birthDate. So that's going to be on a
property of our Entity. So when Spring
goes in to bind data to this, if it's got
a String, it's going to look at that date
time format. So here we have year month
day again so that is the pattern that is
going to be looking at. And again this is
going to be different because this is
working on the entity of pets versus
anything going through the Visit
Controller. It's a very similar technique.
Just two different ways of handling how
to do this. So I'm going to come in here
and I'm going to go ahead and merge in
this change request. So we have a couple
different techniques being used here. I'm
going to see how things behave first.
Let's come back down to IntelliJ. So we
have two different techniques going on
as far as how we are handling the dates
and I usually like to use one or the
other. So I'm going to leave it like this
for now and see if it causes any
problems. If it does we will refactor
this in the future. But being that we are
learning on this, I'm kind of tempted to
leave it as is
because now we have the dataBinder
where we are adjusting the dataBinder
itself. This is going to be more
global for anything coming through the
VisitController. So any property, any
LocalDate property is going to be
handled here. So two different
ways that we can support it.
This is looking for binding local dates
from text or I should say Strings and
it's only going to affect the Visit
Controller. The other one that is going
to be based on the pet.
So this is going to handle pets on the
entity so whenever Spring goes to buying
to this object specifically
here on line 48, the birthDate of the
pet that is only going to be
effective there. So the DateTimeFormat.
The nice part about that is it gives you
a lot of control over a specific
property while the using the dataBinder
and that is going to handle that type so
it's going to be more global. I'll
kind of split on which one to use here.
We'll see if this causes problems or
not. I suspect it in a future video we
will refactor this. I'm going to come
over to Chrome and make sure that
Circles CI. So the build did run.
This videos getting a little bit long.
I'm going to go ahead and that has been
that pull request is done
and I'm going to go ahead and that isn't so
when when I merged it, we can see that
merging it in close that on that issue
automatically so I'm going to consider this
done and we will look at one more pull
request in the next video.